SHIP-5241 Docs (#1)
kabirsikand/cloudflare-docs-kabir: content/workers/platform/routing/_index.md

---
pcx-content-type: concept
title: Routing
---

# Routing

## Background

Routing lets customers connect a Worker to the Internet, allowing it to receive HTTP requests on their Cloudflare zones. There are two ways to route to a Worker: [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) and [Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes).

> 

Author: From Kirk: Towards the beginning, I think we need something like "Routes adds workers functionality to your existing Orange-clouded hostnames, as a proxy in front of your Application server. Custom Domains can replace the Orange-cloud process entirely - automatically adding a worker and an SSL cert to a given hostname"

> Routing lets customers connect a Worker to the Internet, allowing it to receive HTTP requests on their Cloudflare zones.  There are two ways to route to a Worker: [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) and [Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes).  Routes add Workers functionality to your existing Orange-clouded hostnames, as a proxy in front of your application server. Custom Domains can replace the Orange-cloud process entirely – automatically attaching a Worker to your hostname by creating a DNS record and an SSL cert on your behalf.  Custom Domains can also be invoked within the same zone via `fetch()`, unlike Routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing lets customers connect a Worker to the Internet, allowing it to receive HTTP requests on their Cloudflare zones. There are two ways to route to a Worker: 

1. [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains).

and

2. [Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes).

Routes add Workers functionality to your existing proxied (orange-clouded) hostnames, as a proxy in front of your application server. 

Custom Domains can replace the proxy (orange-cloud) process entirely. Custom Domains automatically attach a Worker to your hostname by creating a DNS record and an SSL certificate on your behalf. Custom Domains can also be invoked within the same zone via `fetch()`, unlike Routes.
```

## Custom Domains

> [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) allow our customers to attach a Worker to a hostname.  Cloudflare will create DNS records and issue necessary certificates on behalf of our customers.  The DNS records will point directly to the Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) allow you to attach a Worker to a hostname. Cloudflare will create DNS records and issue necessary certificates on your behalf. The DNS records will point directly to your Worker.
```

> Custom Domains are the best option if you'd like to connect your Worker to the Internet, and you don't have a default application server that you want to always communicate with.  If you do have external dependencies, you can create a `Request` object with the target URI, and call `fetch()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Domains are recommended if you want to connect your Worker to the Internet and do not have a default application server that you want to always communicate with.  If you do have external dependencies, you can create a `Request` object with the target URI, and call `fetch()`.
```

> Custom Domains can stack on top of each other.  If you have Worker A attached to `app.example.com` and Worker B attached to `api.example.com`, Worker A can call `fetch()` on `api.example.com` and invoke Worker B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Domains can stack on top of each other. If you have Worker A attached to `app.example.com` and Worker B attached to `api.example.com`, Worker A can call `fetch()` on `api.example.com` and invoke Worker B.
```

![Custom Domains can stack on top of each other, like any external dependencies](./media/custom-domains-subrequest.png)

> ## Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Routes

```

> [Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes) are a good option if you have a designated application server you always need to communicate with.  Calling `fetch()` on the incoming `Request` object will trigger a subrequest to your application server, as defined in the DNS tab of your Cloudflare zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes) are a set of rules that evaluate against a request's URL. Routes are recommended for you if you have a designated application server you always need to communicate with. Calling `fetch()` on the incoming `Request` object will trigger a subrequest to your application server, as defined in **DNS** of your Cloudflare zone.
```

Reviewer: Custom Domains were defined above but Routes aren't here. Can we add a sentence that says "Routes are ____" or "Routes allow you to ____"?

![Routes work with your applications defined in Cloudflare DNS](./media/routes-diagram.png)

> Routes can `fetch()` Custom Domains, and take precedence if configured on the same hostname.  If you'd like to run a logging Worker in front of your application, for example, you can create a Custom Domain on your application Worker for `app.example.com`, and create a Route for your logging Worker at `app.example.com/*`.  Calling `fetch()` will invoke the application Worker on your Custom Domain.  Note that Routes cannot be the target of a same-zone `fetch()` call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routes can `fetch()` Custom Domains and take precedence if configured on the same hostname. If you would like to run a logging Worker in front of your application, for example, you can create a Custom Domain on your application Worker for `app.example.com`, and create a Route for your logging Worker at `app.example.com/*`.  Calling `fetch()` will invoke the application Worker on your Custom Domain. Note that Routes cannot be the target of a same-zone `fetch()` call.
```

> ## What's Best for Me?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is best for me?
```

> Generally, [Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes) are good for use cases where the Worker acts like a 'proxy', making small modifications to the Request, Response, or logging data in between the user and the server.  [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) are great for more in-depth use cases, where your application lives on the Cloudflare network and may optionally communicate with external dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, [Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes) are good for use cases where the Worker acts like a 'proxy', making small modifications to the Request, Response, or logging data in between the user and the server. 

[Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) are recommended for more in-depth use cases, where your application lives on the Cloudflare network and may optionally communicate with external dependencies.
```

---
pcx-content-type: concept
title: Routing
---

# Routing

## Background

Routing lets customers connect a Worker to the Internet, allowing it to receive HTTP requests on their Cloudflare zones. There are two ways to route to a Worker: 

1. [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains).

and

2. [Routes](/workers/platform/routing/routes).

Routes add Workers functionality to your existing proxied (orange-clouded) hostnames, as a proxy in front of your application server. 

> Custom Domains can replace the proxy (orange-cloud) process entirely. Custom Domains automatically attach a Worker to your hostname by creating a DNS record and an SSL certificate on your behalf. Custom Domains can also be invoked within the same zone via `fetch()`, unlike Routes.

Reviewer 2: @kabirsikand are we actually provisioning certificates here? Afaik the certificate is already provisioned for the Cloudflare zone already.

Author: we are via a cert api

> ## Custom Domains
> [Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) allow you to attach a Worker to a hostname. Cloudflare will create DNS records and issue necessary certificates on your behalf. The DNS records will point directly to your Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Custom Domains

[Custom Domains](/workers/platform/routing/custom-domains) allow you to attach a Worker to a hostname. Cloudflare will create DNS records and issue necessary certificates on your behalf. The DNS records will point directly to your Worker.
```

Custom Domains are recommended if you want to connect your Worker to the Internet and do not have a default application server that you want to always communicate with.  If you do have external dependencies, you can create a `Request` object with the target URI, and call `fetch()`.

> Custom Domains can stack on top of each other. If you have Worker A attached to `app.example.com` and Worker B attached to `api.example.com`, Worker A can call `fetch()` on `api.example.com` and invoke Worker B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Domains can stack on top of each other. For example, if you have Worker A attached to `app.example.com` and Worker B attached to `api.example.com`, Worker A can call `fetch()` on `api.example.com` and invoke Worker B.
```
